Liam Fruzyna

## 1. Refer to section 2.3 for the fishing derby. Consider the model W proportional to l\*l\*g. In detail, interpret the model and explain how it differs from the other models presented in this section. Under what circumstances would the models coincide?

$$W \propto l * l * g$$

A sport fishing club wishes to encourage its members to catch and release but they also want to track the total weight of fish caught by members for awards. A scale is inconvenient so the weight should be approximated by the length of the fish. 

Many factors can be considered. Different species have different shapes and average weight densities plus gender and season can play a role in weight.

Initially consider a single species of fish (bass) and assume that the average weight density is constant. Also, neglect gender and season.

Assuming all bass are geometrically similar we can calculate volume from a single dimension of the fish, then use that to calculate weight. So,

$$W \propto V \propto l^3$$

But, not all fish are geometrically similar so we can replace $l^2$ with the girth of the fish or the cross-sectional area.

$$V \propto lg^2$$

from where we can derive the model

$$W = klg^2$$

Other models don't go into the detail of breaking down the length dimension into anything more specific, but they do use a single length dimension to represent the weight. In this case length cubed becomes length times the cross-sectional area of the fish. This is to better account for different shapes of fish because they can be slimmer or thicker even when maintaining length.